README.md, before:

# OrigamiVSC

Like [Origami for Sublime Text](https://github.com/SublimeText/Origami) but for VS Code.

**DISCLAIMER**

This is **not** an extension. It is also nowhere near as complex as Origami and is a basic solution that fits my own needs.

This means that I don't guarantee that things will work on your machine as they do on mine.

I also don't take responsibility for any chaos on your machine thanks to this hacky solution. 🤷‍♂

I'm hoping that someone will take notice of this and build a proper extension. 🙏

## How to install
1. Install the [macros](https://github.com/geddski/macros) VS Code extension by going [here](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=geddski.macros).
2. Copy the contents of this [keybindings.json](keybindings.json) to your keybindings.json.
3. Copy the contents of this [settings.json](settings.json) to your settings.json.
4. Done 🎉

# Please Note
1. I have only tested this on macOS.
2. You will only be able to create empty panes if you set `workbench.editor.closeEmptyGroups` to `false` in your settings.json otherwise the `createPane` command won't work.
3. If the above is set to `false` then you will then have to close panes manually using the `destroyPane` command.
4. You can only destroy the currently selected pane used the `destroyPane` command and not any noncurrent panes because focusing on an editor group in VS Code is slower than closing an editor group for some reason...
5. Pane resizing only changes in one direction (**width OR height** NOT **width AND height**). This is based on the editor group layout being set to horizontal or vertical. You can set this through the `flipPaneOrientation` command. Be warned that changing the editor group layout will rearrange your existing panes.
6. Last but not least, unzooming a pane will reset the widths & heights of **all** panes. (I did tell you that this is hacky)


## Features
- [x] Creating Panes
- [x] Destroying the currently selected pane.
- [x] Focusing panes
- [x] Carrying (moving) files to different panes 
- [x] Changing the size of a pane
- [x] Zooming in on a pane
- [ ] Destroying non-selected panes
- [ ] Cloning Panes
- [ ] Merging Panes

## Key shortcuts
Below are the default keybindings for OrigamiVSC.

![](keys.png)

## Special Thanks
Thanks to the creators of both Origami and the macros VS Code extension for making such awesome software.

## Resources that helped me put this together
- https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/issues/2755
- https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/issues/23243
- https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/issues/53728
- https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/settings
- https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/keybindings
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40709351/vscode-how-to-split-editor-vertically
- https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/blob/fc251d651d3a7acf9cf12e176e63bc3277ff800a/src/vs/workbench/browser/parts/editor/editorActions.ts
- https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/blob/c63c97c12848e85769e717209b73110e83c18ef6/src/vs/workbench/common/editor/editorGroup.ts
- https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/blob/2c93ec4a2dc119067a5853ae510a9ea27ed0c1c6/src/vs/workbench/browser/parts/editor/editorGroupView.ts
- https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/blob/1e2b78d601ab709ef860181a71bc305d193f52b2/src/vs/workbench/browser/parts/editor/editorCommands.ts

Commit message:

added an origami picture because why not, updated README thanks

README.md, after:

# OrigamiVSC

Like [Origami for Sublime Text](https://github.com/SublimeText/Origami) but for VS Code.

![](origami.jpg)

**DISCLAIMER**

This is **not** an extension. It is also nowhere near as complex as Origami and is a basic solution that fits my own needs.

This means that I don't guarantee that things will work on your machine as they do on mine.

I also don't take responsibility for any chaos on your machine thanks to this hacky solution. 🤷‍♂

I'm hoping that someone will take notice of this and build a proper extension. 🙏

## How to install
1. Install the [Macros](https://github.com/geddski/macros) VS Code extension by going [here](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=geddski.macros).
2. Copy the contents of this [keybindings.json](keybindings.json) to your keybindings.json.
3. Copy the contents of this [settings.json](settings.json) to your settings.json.
4. Done 🎉

# Please Note
1. I have only tested this on macOS.
2. You will only be able to create empty panes if you set `workbench.editor.closeEmptyGroups` to `false` in your settings.json otherwise the `createPane` command won't work.
3. If the above is set to `false` then you will then have to close panes manually using the `destroyPane` command.
4. You can only destroy the currently selected pane used the `destroyPane` command and not any noncurrent panes because focusing on an editor group in VS Code is slower than closing an editor group for some reason...
5. Pane resizing only changes in one direction (**width OR height** NOT **width AND height**). This is based on the editor group layout being set to horizontal or vertical. You can set this through the `flipPaneOrientation` command. Be warned that changing the editor group layout will rearrange your existing panes.
6. Last but not least, unzooming a pane will reset the widths & heights of **all** panes. (I did tell you that this is hacky)


## Features
- [x] Creating Panes
- [x] Destroying the currently selected pane.
- [x] Focusing panes
- [x] Carrying (moving) files to different panes 
- [x] Changing the size of a pane
- [x] Zooming in on a pane
- [ ] Destroying non-selected panes
- [ ] Cloning Panes
- [ ] Merging Panes

## Key shortcuts
Below are the default keybindings for OrigamiVSC.

![](keys.png)

## Special Thanks
Thanks to the [Sublime Text team](https://github.com/SublimeText) for maintaining the Origami repository and [geddski](https://github.com/geddski) for developing Macros VS Code extension for making such awesome software. 

Finally thanks to [Alex on Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/@worthyofelegance) who took the Origami picture.

## Resources that helped me put this together
- https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/issues/2755
- https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/issues/23243
- https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/issues/53728
- https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/settings
- https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/keybindings
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40709351/vscode-how-to-split-editor-vertically
- https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/blob/fc251d651d3a7acf9cf12e176e63bc3277ff800a/src/vs/workbench/browser/parts/editor/editorActions.ts
- https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/blob/c63c97c12848e85769e717209b73110e83c18ef6/src/vs/workbench/common/editor/editorGroup.ts
- https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/blob/2c93ec4a2dc119067a5853ae510a9ea27ed0c1c6/src/vs/workbench/browser/parts/editor/editorGroupView.ts
- https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/blob/1e2b78d601ab709ef860181a71bc305d193f52b2/src/vs/workbench/browser/parts/editor/editorCommands.ts
